Good morning to everybody present here. I hope all of you are having a pleasant day, and I am sure you will have a great day after listening to my speech on happiness. How can a person define happiness? Is it a subjective matter that only one individual can have? 


There are different meanings of happiness that people have. What makes one person happy might not make another person happy as well. I believe that happiness is something that makes a person feel optimistic and energetic from within. It is a source of our energy. When a person is happy, they have the energy and confidence to overcome any obstacle in front of them. Happiness can either be derived externally or internally. I believe that happiness is something that comes from within a person. There is a quote that says, “People who are wealthy are happy.” I don’t believe that’s true. I believe that happy individuals should consider themselves wealthy. Happiness is present in all of us internally and can be achieved through the process of self-realisation.

The very fact that we are alive every day should be considered a precious gift. We have been given the gift of life, which should be the very source of our happiness. If a person is grateful, he will be satisfied with every small thing. He will find happiness in every small moment around him. It is that positive attitude that a man has that makes him a truly happy person. Satisfaction is such a great quality. A person who is never satisfied will always be greedy and can never be happy with anything he gets. However, a person who is satisfied will always be happy with what he has. In my opinion, the four major keys to happiness are satisfaction, self-realisation, optimism, and gratitude.

To conclude my speech, I would like to summarise my understanding of happiness by saying that to understand what happiness really is, a person must first look deep inside their hearts and truly be content with everything that is around them. I think finding joy within the smallest things in life leads to happiness. A truly happy person will never be disappointed and look for only materialistic things in life. It is because they are satisfied with what they have and know the true meaning of gratitude. Happiness is the key to living a successful life. It is what is needed to be grateful and live a complete and full life.
